To add the action item to the header I'll do something which I did in the navigation section as well
in the components folder.
I want to add my own header button.
And now for this I'll add a new sub folder in there which I'll name you I add my idea here is simple
I have to shop folder which holds all the components that I use in my shop that output some shop related
information in the UI folder I want have some general UI building blocks which I'll of course also use
in this shop application but which are not really focused on outputting shop or product related data
but which are simply dare to provide some default styling or layout and it's in this UI folder where
I will add my own header button like going in there and importing react from react and then importing
header button from react navigation header buttons this package I installed at the beginning of the
module if you haven't done this make sure you NPM installed as package and then also import ionic pins
from at Expo vector icons.
To be super sure that you have that installed run npm install dash to save at Expo the vector icon so
that this package is a way lable in your project.
These are the imports I need here.
Now I also want to import my colors from the Constance folder and there two colors jazz file and now
in here I'll add my custom header button component which is a normal react component in the end that
receives props and needs to return some J as X and I will of course export my custom header button here
in the end.
And now the jazz exit is returned here is the header button I'm importing from react navigation header
buttons but I have to configure it in a certain way loops use the header button here from HREOC NAPE
navigation header buttons for one does should receives all the props we get here.
So we just forward those but an additional set my I can component here too.
Are you mannequins so that we always use eye on icons for rendering that.
And of course you could use one of the different vector icon sets provided by Expo vector icons as well.
I'll set the icon size to 20 free which I found to work out really well but of course you can experiment
with different values here as well.
Also maybe if you're using a different I can set try out a different icon size and forward colour.
Well there it depends.
Because on Android we have like a red background here for IOW we haven't.
So we need to set a different color based on the platform we're running on.
So actually import the platform from React Native here and then we can check the platform here.
Nifty OS version is Android.
Dan I know I have this solid field background.
For the icon should be white when I was on the other hand the background is not filled it's transparent
and therefore on I was all actually set my eye can color two colors start primary.
Now we can use that to add I can hear on the product overview screen there in my navigation options
here.
I want to add my header right section so I can on the right of my header and for that here we need to
import a couple of things we need to import Hatter buttons and item from the react navigation header
buttons package we installed.
I of course also need to import my own Hatter button from components UI header buttons sodas component
we just worked in and now down there header right is header buttons as a wrapper to possibly have multiple
items in there but I will only add one item as self closing element on header buttons before we continue
with the item we have to set the header button component equal to to header buttons so to our own header
button here and the item can now be configured it should receive a title which can be card it should
receive.
I can name and I actually want to use a different icon based on the platform we're running on.
So they offer from React Native I will import platform that is optional you could use one and the same
icon for both platforms but I think it also looks good to have different icons.
And then here I'll check platform OS and if that's Android then I want to use the MDA card icon which
is the ionic and card icon for lower material design and Album wise I'll use the Iaw card icon and again
you can find all available icons in this icons list.
I showed you earlier in the course the expo vector icon icons list and last but not least when the item
gets pressed we probably want to do something and for now I don't do anything but we'll changed as soon
if we know as we should see this.
I can hear.
Here it is here's our card.
Also on Android and now we just have to make sure that when we tapped as we are taken to our a card
screen for Dead of course we have to add some logic or some some output to the card screen.
So instead of the card screen we of course have a normal react component.
So we import react from react.
We also import something from react native and that's something is a view component to wrap our screen.
Maybe we'll probably output some text as well.
We'll have a couple of card items being listed there which we can do with a flat list to have optimisation
built in probably one to style some things with a style sheet and I'll also import the built in button
component now my card screen here as always is a react component and I'll set up this stalls object
here with style sheet create so that we can install this component as well and in the end we export
our card screen here as a default.
Now you can of course built this card screen in whatever way you want.
I will build it such that we have a view and in that view I want to have two main sections to the topmost
sections like the summary where I see the total amount and where I have to order now button.
This will be in one row so I will have a nested view here where I can position items next to each other
where I have like a text write say.
Total and then here dollar sign and then my my total price maybe we can also nest this.
You can have nested text components if you remember without issues to give us a separate color for example.
So for now I a hard code nineteen ninety nine in there but later it will be derived dynamically.
So that's one thing.
And in addition in that same row here I want to have a button with a title of order.
Now where I can press a two well-placed in order clear my cart and add this to my orders which we have
yet to manage and output it in on the order screen.
In the end now below this summary section I want to have a flat list with my separate card items so
that we can really see what's in the card.
Which products are in there how much of each product is in there.
So that's another thing I will output there for the moment here.
I'll just add a view with a text of card items as a place holder.
But again this will be a flat list in the future but let's start with the total here to get that total.
We can tap into redux because there we are managing our card so we can use use selector firm react redux
as you learn to get data out of our store and here I have my card.
Total amount maybe which I get with the help of use selector from my state DOT card slice Dot card here
because in the app chairs file in combined reduced rates I assigned a key of card here to my card reducer
so here I have dot card and then there insert of the card reducer.
I manage my total amount the total amount field so that's what we need to access here total amount.
This gives the card total amount that we can now use Dad down there.
And with that to ensure that dissolves looks good it's time for some styling.
So on the topmost view here l I'll add a style of screen maybe because this wraps the entire screen
in the end.
Then here on that view I'll add a style of summary because that holds all the summary items.
Then here on this text I'll add a style of
summary text and then here I'll add a style of amount so that we can style this amount text differently
so for styles I want to set.
Let's go down to the style sheet and add screen summary summary text and then also what did a name it
amount and of course it's as always totally up to you how you now want a stylus.
Now I'll start with the screen in the end I want to take the full size of the screen if we need to with
the flatness later but I will start simple and we'll just say that I want have a margin in all directions
actually here of 20 so around everything so that there is some space around everything then here.
Summary which is our box with all the items in there with the order now but then our text should use
a flex directional row to position items in well one row.
I went to a line items in the center to make sure they're centered vertically and on their main axis
I want to use justified content space between so that items have the free space between them and items.
Are this text here and this button besides Dad we can add a little bit of margin here.
Maybe all of 20.
Which is mostly important also to have some spacing between the summary and our flat list several actually
use margin bottom year to only have some margin to the bottom and I want to add a padding of 10 year
because the summary should be kind of in an elevated box.
And for this box here I'll go to my product item component and all copy my shadow set up here and the
border radius maybe I have here and the background color so that I have the same look here in the cart.
And that's of course up to you whether you want that or not but I'll copy that in there.
For the summary text I now want to use a font family of open Sands bold to really highlight this total
and a fun size of 18 and for the amount text in there.
I'll set the color two colors dot X and color.
Now for that important of course you need to import colors from the constants folder that I use axiom
The not primary to really have to stand out to see whether it looks the way we want it to look.
We need to make sure that's tapping this header button in our product overview screen actually takes
us to the card screen and for that two things are required.
For one we need to navigate here but before we can do that we need to register a card screen in our
navigator so we'll do that first tell import my card screen here from the screens folder unsurprisingly
from the shop folder and there from card screen and now that's the third screen I add here to this stack.
Navigator card points at card screen with that setup added here we can go back to the product overview
screen and there we now need that functional form for the navigation options because naff data then
allows us to tap into the navigation prop and call navigate.
Hence we need to wrap this in another object which we return.
And then here we can call NAF data dot navigation dot navigate and there I go to cart and this of course
is the identifier I just picked in the shop navigator here.
This one with that.
Let's see if I click here.
There we are.
This is my total.
I actually think the axon color isn't that great there.
So I'll actually go back to the card screen and stalled is to use the primary color as well.
But the main thing is we can go there and if I now try to add items to the card I add at the shirt twice
and the carpet once that total amount looks good to me that's all I've tried is on Android of course
to make sure it works there as well and generally works I add one more red shirt and therefore here
we also see an issue with the the way this is displayed to fixed is on the card screen make sure that
on the price we always just output two decimal places on amount with two fixed to now by the way in
case you're wondering where does what's coming from this long no.
This is no bag or nothing really to react native does this normal javascript behavior when you're working
with floating point numbers and of course to fix should not be called on the style here but on the card
total amount so this was a normal behavior not a back does is how javascript internally kind of stories
floating point numbers you could say but now we make sure that this is output correctly with two decimal
places missing thing is the button and here I now actually want to use color colors accent to have my
accent colored button so if I now go to my card here and I w does how the button looks like they're
this is now how he looks like an android.
We can always press this of course I want to disable it though if there is nothing in the cart.
And for Dad we now need to get our card items as well so card items can also be fetched with use selector.
Also from the card slice but there it's the items prop from the card reducer we're interested interested
in so if I have a look at the card reducer dare you see we have the items property.
This is an object which I'm retrieving now.
So card items is an object not an array actually an array would be better for me here though and therefore
I'll use the long form forgetting this and I will return an array here and not an object so we can get
our trends for and card items here for example by creating a new array here inside of this selector
function and then we can add a for in loop to go for all the keys in state DOT card dot items so to
loop for all the key value pairs in this card.
Items object we have in there and I want to add each of them.
As a item to the transformed card items so there I will push a javascript object which has a product
I.D. let's say which is just my key because an ID card items object the product I.D. is stored as a
key if you remember.
So now I add this to the product I.D. property and this object I add to the transformed card items array
and besides that I'll have my product title which is of course state DOT card dot items for the given
key dot product title.
If you have a look at your card item model you'll see that their product title and product price are
the property names that hold the product title and product price.
So that's how we access both.
So I'll do the same here for the product price and thereafter I also need to quantity which is state
DOT card dot items for two given key dot quantity and of course all the the sum which is state DOT card
dot items dot key dot some again basically just what we had here the card item.
So what I'm doing is so to say I'm creating a new card item not with my model though because it's a
card item with an additional product I.D. property so that I have to sit in here and now it's just transfer
him card items that ray which I return after this for loop so that disk selector and the and returns
an array and not an object.
So card items is now an array which makes it easier for us to use it in the flat list and it also allows
us to check here on the order now button whenever we want to disable it by simply checking the length
of this array.
We now have card items.
So here on the button we can set the disabled prop which it supports thankfully there's a built in component
which simply has a disabled prop and there I can check if card items length is equal to zero if it is
then I know it's empty and then indeed I want to disable the button so disabled receives true or false
by default it's false but I'll set it to true if card items length is 0 and now you see if I go to the
card screen does this disabled if I add a product though when I go there it's enabled and of course
you could also use a different colour for the order now button if you want to.
Now with that we're one step closer to the finished cards and of course the next goal is to output the
card items.